# The rest-tool documentation

## Create and maintain API projects

### Create new projects

in order to generate a new REST API project, execute the following command:

    $ rest-tool create <project-name>

for example:

    $ rest-tool create crm-api

After, you have created the new project, move into the new projects folder, 
and install those node modules, the new project needs:

    $ cd crm-api
    $ npm install

The REST API project layout generated by the `rest-tool` utility will look like this:

    crm-api/
    ├── docs
    ├── server
    ├── services
    │   └── monitoring
    │       └── isAlive
    ├── templates
    │   ├── docs
    │   │   ├── images
    │   │   ├── js
    │   │   │   └── jquery-1.9.0
    │   │   ├── sass
    │   │   │   └── partials
    │   │   └── stylesheets
    │   ├── server
    │   ├── services
    │   │   ├── COLLECTION
    │   │   ├── OPERATION
    │   │   └── RESOURCE
    │   └── test
    └── test


In general, you can modify the content of the files and folders the `rest-tool create` command made, except the files in `docs` and the `test` folders, because these are created/overweritten by the `rest-tool` command. If you want to modify the working of the cases, the server api implementation or the look-and-feel of the generated documents, you should mostly make changes under the `templates` and `server` directories, and of course you will create the service descriptions under the `services` folder.

- __config.yml__ :   
    The configuration parameters of the REST API project

- __server__ :   
    The mock server with the mock implementation of the API

- __services__ :   
    This folder contains the service descriptors. Each service should be put into its own subfolder, and must have a `service.yml` in it. All the other supplementary files, which belongs to the specific service, and used to the specification must be put here, beside the `service.yml` file. Such files can be test data and schema files.

    The service implementation files, which are referred by the `service.yml` but run on the mock, or live server should be put beside the server code, and not here, beside the specification files.

    Note: The files placed into this folder will be referenced from other places, such as: from the HTML documentation, the server and the test cases.

- __docs__ :   
    The HTMl format documentation of the REST API. this folder will be totally removed, and recreated during updating the documentation, so you should not modify its content manually.

- __templates__ :   
    The customizable templates used by the documentation generator and the test case generator.

- __templates/docs__ :   
    Documentation templates, stylesheets, and images that the tool is using to create the HTML format documentation. They are written in Mustache format, using partials.

    The stylesheet is based on sass/compass. if you want to change the CSS, modify the files under the `templates/docs/sass` directory.

- __templates/test__ :   
    JavaScript test-case (mustache) templates to generate unit test code, which will run with mocha and supertest. These are referred from the service descriptors by their names. You can put here any number of additional templates.

- __templates/services__ :   
    Service descriptor templates in YAML format organized by the three main classes of services: COLLECTION, RESOURCE and OPERATION. Each stereotype has its own subdirectory, containing the service.yml template as well as some predefined test data files.

- __test__ :   
    The test cases generated by the `rest-tool` utility using the service descriptors, and the referred templates.

- __Makefile__ :   
    Makefile to run the test cases. Used by mocha and Jenkins.


### Upgrade an existing API project

Currently the `rest-tool` is under intensive development. The content of the generated projects might change with the new versions. 

A given project is generated to refer to a specific `rest-tool-common` module, which ensures that the project will work even the rest-tool is significantly changing, however it only guarantees that the server, and the previuously generated test cases will work.

In case you are upgrading to a new `rest-tool` version, the document generation and test case generation may not work any more with an older project.

If you would like to leverage the new features, you have upgrade your old project to the new version. In order to do this, an `rest-tool upgrade` command will be developed soon.
Until it will be implemented, you can make the following workaround:

1. Install the newest version of the `rest-tool`.
2. Generate a new, empty project with the new version.
3. Replace the version of `rest-tool-common` in the old project's `package.json` with the new value found in the newly generated project's `package.json`.
4. Merge the new module dependencies might fuond in the new version of `package.json` to the old `projects' package.json`.
4. Copy/merge the templates folder from the new project to the old project.
5. Copy/merge the server folder from the new project to the old project.
6. Merge the config.yml file from the new project to the config.yml file of the old project.
7. Regenerate the docs and test cases.

## Create and maintain services

### Service definitions

The services can be specified under the `services` folder. Each service will be activated only if it is added to the `config.yml` file, which can be found under the project root directory.

The newly created project contains a sample service descriptor (`services/monitoring/isAlive/service.yml`) and the `config.yml` configuration file. This new setup can be used to verify the working of the project without modifying the files. The sample desciptor also can be used as a template to write your own definitions. You can use Markdown format text in fields named like: 'description', 'summary' and 'details'.

Note: The service descriptors you create will not be used automatically. You have to 
manually list them under the `services` property of the `config.yml` file:

    services:
        - /monitoring/isAlive
        # To add new services, put here the path of the directory that contains the service.yml

This way, you can write your new services until they will be stable enough to activate them, and they will be loaded and start working only if you have added them to the config file.


### Create a new services

#### Add new service to the project

You can create a new service either manually creating and editing `service.yml` files, or using the `rest-tool` with the `add` and/or `add-bulk` command.

To add one service, you can use the `rest-tool add` command:

    $ rest-tool add -h

      Usage: add [options]

      Options:

        -h, --help                     output usage information
        -t, --type [type]              Defines the type (OPERATION|COLLECTION|RESOURCE) of the service (default: RESOURCE)
        -p, --path <path>              The path of the service description relative to project-root/service/
        -u, --urlPattern <urlPattern>  The unique URL pattern of the service
        -n, --name <name>              The name of the operation/collection/resource
        -d, --desc <desc>              The description of the service
        -c, --config [configFileName]  The name of the configuration file (default: config.yml)
        -v, --verbose                  Verbose mode


For example, to create a collection manager service, execute the following command:

    $ rest-tool add -t COLLECTION \
        -p customers \
        -u /customers \
        -n Customers \
        -d "A service to manage the collection of customers"

#### Add new service to the project in bulk mode

It is also possible to create more than one service in one step with the `rest-tool add-bulk` command:

    $ rest-tool add-bulk -h

      Usage: add-bulk [options]

      Options:

        -h, --help                     output usage information
        -s, --services [services]      The filename of which contains the list of services to create (for example: bulk.json)
        -c, --config [configFileName]  The name of the configuration file (default: config.yml)
        -v, --verbose                  Verbose mode

<!-- TODO: Show example, and demo bulk config file -->


### The structure of the service.yml file
TBD.

see also:
- [serviceSchema.yml](https://github.com/tombenke/rest-tool-common/blob/master/schemas/serviceSchema.yml)
- [requestParametersSchema.yml](https://github.com/tombenke/rest-tool-common/blob/master/schemas/requestParametersSchema.yml)
- [headersSchema.yml](https://github.com/tombenke/rest-tool-common/blob/master/schemas/headersSchema.yml)
- [cookiesSchema.yml](https://github.com/tombenke/rest-tool-common/blob/master/schemas/cookiesSchema.yml)
- [testCaseSchema.yml](https://github.com/tombenke/rest-tool-common/blob/master/schemas/testCaseSchema.yml)

### Service stereotypes
TBD.
    - operation
    - collection
    - resource

### Configure the services

see also:
- [serviceConfigSchema.yml](https://github.com/tombenke/rest-tool-common/blob/master/schemas/serviceConfigSchema.yml)

### Create mock data

Just simply put any files beside the `service.yml` and refer to them using the `mockBody` fields in the service descriptor.

### Validation
TBD.

### Create dynamic mock services
TBD.

## Using the server

### Start the server

To start the mock server, execute the following command:

    $ node server/server.js

This will start a web server, which will listen on the localhost, and the port specified in the `config.yml` file (3007 by default).

After starting the server, you can can try it with a browser, or the `curl` command line tool:

    $ curl http://localhost:3007/rest/monitoring/isAlive
    true


### Use as static mock server
TBD.

### Use as static content provider of docs and webui
TBD.

### Add new modules (dynamic service implementations)
TBD.

### Use as proxy
TBD.

## Documenting the REST API project

### Generate documentation

To create or update the HTMl format documentation, execute the following command:

    $ rest-tool docs --update

This will create the documentation under the `docs` folder. the HTMl documentation can be opened via a browser directly as a static file, or through the mock server, loading the following URL: (http://localhost:3007/docs/index.html).

Generate the documentation for the predefined service with the following command:

    $ rest-tool docs --update

The following files will be generated (in case of a new project):

    $ tree docs
    docs
    ├── images
    │   └── grid.png
    ├── index.html
    ├── js
    │   ├── jquery-1.9.0
    │   │   ├── jquery-1.9.0.js
    │   │   └── jquery-1.9.0.min.js
    │   └── restapidoc.js
    ├── README.md
    ├── sass
    │   ├── ie.scss
    │   ├── partials
    │   │   └── _base.scss
    │   ├── print.scss
    │   └── screen.scss
    ├── services
    │   └── monitoring
    │       └── isAlive
    │           ├── service.html
    │           └── service.yml
    └── stylesheets
        ├── ie.css
        ├── print.css
        └── screen.css


The generated documentation can be opened with a browser either as a static content 
opening the `docs/index.html` or through the server using the `http://localhost:3007/docs/` URL.


### Customize the generated documentation
TBD.
- structure
- look-and-feel

## Testing the api

### Generate test cases

Before you run the tests, you have to generate/update the test cases.
You can do this with the following command:

    $ rest-tool test --update --overwrite

The `--overwrite` option tells the tool to overwrite the existing cases, otherwise it will keep the if they exist yet.


### Run test cases

After the test cases is generated, you can run the tests, directly from the command line, or by the continuous integration server. Use one of the following commands:

    $ make test

or

    $ mocha

To select the appropriate reporting format for the continuous integration environment, modify the `Makefile`:

    REPORTER ?= spec

    test:
        @node_modules/.bin/mocha --reporter $(REPORTER)

    .PHONY: test


### Add new test-case templates

In case you would like to extend the test cases (for example to add JSON or XML validation), you should execute the following steps:

1. Write a working sample test case, and try it to make sure, that is working properly.
2. Make a mustache template from it, and put into the `templates/test` folder.
3. Refer to it in the `service.yml` files using the `template` property of the testCases.

During the test-case generation process, each template got the whole service description, and some additional data. 

<!-- TODO: describe additional fields for test-case generation. -->
